= The baretest executable



== 1. Usage

Basic Usage:

  baretest [options] [glob, ...]"

Either you provide a `glob` (or a directory, which is equivalent to DIRECTORY/\*\*/\*.rb),
then baretest will load all the files it matches and invoke BareTest.run in the end. Or you
use the standard way and let baretest use convention. For that you should run baretest within
the project, preferably the toplevel.
Baretest will then search the directory tree upwards until it finds 'test/setup.rb'. It
will then use the default layout of a project, which should look roughly like this:

  |-- bin
  |   `-- ...
  |-- doc
  |   `-- ...
  |-- examples
  |   `-- ...
  |-- lib
  |   `-- ...
  |-- rake
  |   `-- ...
  `-- test
      |-- external
      |   `-- ...
      |-- helper
      |   `-- ...
      |-- setup.rb
      `-- suite
          |-- bin
          |   `-- ...
          `-- lib
              `-- ...

The important part are the directories under 'test'. The directory 'test/suite' should mirror your
project, but instead of the real files contain the files that test their counterparts. For example,
the file 'YOURPROJECT/lib/yourproject.rb' has its tests in
'YOURPROJECT/test/suite/lib/yourproject.rb'.
Additionally, baretest will in that mode look for a file
'YOURPROJECT/test/helper/suite/lib/yourproject.rb' and load it if found.



== 2. Options


=== Getting information about baretest:

-F, \--formats:: Lists the available output formatters

-v::             Prints the baretest executables and the libs version number


=== Running tests:

-i, \--interactive::   drop into IRB on error or failure
                       
-d, \--debug::         Set debugging flags.
                       
                       This sets $DEBUG to true, same as rubys -d switch.
                       
-f, \--format FORMAT:: Use the formatter specified in FORMAT, defaults to 'cli'
                       
-s, \--setup FILE::    specify setup file
                       
                       This option allows you to tell baretest where it finds the setup.rb file.
                       
                       Defaults to test/setup.rb.
                       
-w, \--warn::          Turn warnings on for your script.
                       
                       This sets $VERBOSE to true, same as rubys -w switch.
                       
                       Additionally, some formatters will provide more information
                       (e.g. full backtraces on errors) when $VERBOSE is set.



=== 3. The interactive mode

In interactive mode, baretest will stop execution when an error or a failure is hit. It
then prints out the status, the assertions description, its code and then drops you into
an irb-shell in the context of the failed assertion, with setup already executed. You
can then try out what caused the assertion to fail.

Be aware that printing the code relies on your indentation.



=== 4. Writing a formatter

This section will follow. For now, just take a look at the existing formatters.
They are pretty simple.